docs: update `docs/usage/applications` (#3302)
litestar-org/litestar: docs/usage/applications.rst

A classic use case for this is database connectivity. Often, we want to establish a database connection on application
startup, and then close it gracefully upon shutdown.

For example, let us create a database connection using the async engine from
`SQLAlchemy <https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/orm/extensions/asyncio.html>`_. We create two functions, one to get or
establish the connection, and another to close it, and then pass them to the :class:`~litestar.app.Litestar` constructor:

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/startup_and_shutdown.py

Reviewer: IDK why but this (and most of the other examples) on the page don't have full syntax highlighting in the docs preview. The Hello World example at the top does, but most others don't. E.g., keyword highlights, etc.

Author: Im not seeing why it does this either :|

Author: tried tagging it with `:language:`, matching what the working one does, nothing.. not sure if its a local thing?

    flowchart LR
        ctx_b --> ctx_a --> hook_a --> hook_b

As seen, the :term:`context managers <asynchronous context manager>` are invoked in inverse order.
On the other hand, the shutdown hooks are invoked in their specified order.

.. _application-state:

Using Application State
-----------------------

> As seen in the examples for the `on_startup / on_shutdown <Startup and Shutdown>`, :term:`callables <python:callable>`

Author: ```suggestion
As seen in the examples for the `on_startup / on_shutdown <#startup-and-shutdown>`_, :term:`callables <python:callable>`
```

passed to these hooks can receive an optional :term:`kwarg <argument>` called ``app``, through which the application's
state object and other properties can be accessed. The advantage of using application :paramref:`~.app.Litestar.state`,
is that it can be accessed during multiple stages of the connection, and it can be injected into dependencies and
route handlers.

The Application State is an instance of the :class:`.datastructures.state.State` datastructure, and it is
accessible via the :paramref:`~.app.Litestar.state` attribute. As such it can be accessed wherever the app instance
is accessible.

:paramref:`~.app.Litestar.state` is one of the
:ref:`reserved keyword arguments <usage/routing/handlers:"reserved" keyword arguments>`.

It is important to understand in this context that the application instance is injected into the ASGI ``scope`` mapping

> for each connection (i.e. request or websocket connection) as ``scope["app"].state``. This makes the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for each connection (i.e. request or websocket connection) as ``scope["app"]``. This makes the application
```

accessible wherever the scope mapping is available, e.g. in middleware, on :class:`~.connection.request.Request` and
:class:`~.connection.websocket.WebSocket` instances (accessible as ``request.app`` / ``socket.app``), and many
other places.

Therefore, :paramref:`~.app.Litestar.state` offers an easy way to share contextual data between disparate parts
of the application, as seen below:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/application_state/using_application_state.py
    :caption: Using Application State

.. _Initializing Application State:

Initializing Application State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To seed application state, you can pass a :class:`.datastructures.state.State` object to the

Author: ```suggestion
To seed application state, you can pass a :class:`~.datastructures.state.State` object to the
```

:paramref:`~.app.Litestar.state` parameter of the Litestar constructor:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/application_state/passing_initial_state.py
    :caption: Using Application State

.. note:: :class:`~.datastructures.state.State` can be initialized with a :class:`dictionary <dict>`, an instance of
    :class:`~.datastructures.state.ImmutableState` or :class:`~.datastructures.state.State`,

>     or a :class:`list` of :class:`tuples <tuple>` containing key/value pairs.

Reviewer: I don't think this is true anymore - maybe it was for 1.x but its just typed `State | None` now.

Author: wdyt https://github.com/litestar-org/litestar/commit/1e5df3296abd3acd452d6e51d3006f98ac824146

Reviewer: Sorry - I was wrong about this. I thought this was referring to the value that could be passed to the application on instantiation, not what can be passed to the state object on instantiation.

.. attention:: You may instruct :class:`~.datastructures.state.State` to deep copy initialized data to prevent mutation
    from outside the application context. To do this, st :paramref:`~.datastructures.state.State.deep_copy` to
    ``True`` in the :class:`~.datastructures.state.State` constructor.

Injecting Application State into Route Handlers and Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As seen in the above example, Litestar offers an easy way to inject state into route handlers and dependencies - simply

> by specifying ``state`` as a kwarg to the handler function. In other words, you can simply do this in handler function
> or dependency to access the application state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by specifying ``state`` as a kwarg to the handler or dependency function. For example:
```
This was quite wordy, and felt to me like saying the same thing twice.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Accessing application :class:`~.datastructures.state.State` in a handler function

    from litestar import get
    from litestar.datastructures import State

    @get("/")
    def handler(state: State) -> None: ...

When using this pattern you can specify the class to use for the state object. This type is not merely for type
checkers, rather Litestar will instantiate a new ``state`` instance based on the type you set there.

> This allows users to use custom classes for :class:`~.datastructures.state.State`, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows users to use custom classes for :class:`~.datastructures.state.State`.
```
No example follows.

While this is very powerful, it might encourage users to follow anti-patterns: it is important to emphasize that using
state can lead to code that is hard to reason about and bugs that are difficult to understand, due to changes in

> different ASGI contexts. As such, this pattern should be used only when it is the best choice and in a limited fashion.

Reviewer: It feels weird to me that in an introductory usage document, we effectively say, "Hey, here's a thing you can do with `State`, but its weird and bug-prone, so don't do it."

Makes me feel that we should have a separate section in usage for `State` that explores these concepts outside of the app use docs. WDYT?

Author: What's a good spot you think? a topic? or a section in this further down maybe under `Advanced Stuff`?

Reviewer: Opened #3346 for this

:class:`sync or async callable <litestar.types.BeforeMessageSendHookHandler>` that is called when an ASGI message is
sent. The hook receives the message instance and the ASGI ``scope``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/application_hooks/before_send_hook.py
    :caption: Before Send Hook

Initialization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Litestar includes a hook for intercepting the arguments passed to the
:class:`Litestar constructor <litestar.app.Litestar>`, before they are used to instantiate the application.

Handlers can be passed to the :paramref:`~.app.Litestar.on_app_init` parameter on construction of the application,
and in turn, each will receive an instance of :class:`~.config.app.AppConfig` and must return an instance of same.

This hook is useful for applying common configuration between applications, and for use by developers who may wish to
develop third-party application configuration systems.

.. note:: :paramref:`~.app.Litestar.on_app_init` handlers cannot be :ref:`python:async def` functions, as they are
    called within :paramref:`~litestar.app.Litestar.__init__`, outside of an async context.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/application_hooks/on_app_init.py

>     :caption: After Exception Hook

Reviewer: Incorrect caption

Author: fixed in 689d47537bb368d6a660a6673647f00b92528ddf

> Litestar has a layered architecture compromising of (generally speaking) 4 layers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Litestar has a layered architecture compromising of 4 layers:
```

> #. The application object :class:`The application object <litestar.app.Litestar>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. :class:`The application object <litestar.app.Litestar>`
```

#. :class:`Routers <.router.Router>`

> #. `Controllers <.controller.Controller>`
> #. `Handlers <.handlers.BaseRouteHandler>`

Author: ```suggestion
#. :class:`Controllers <.controller.Controller>`
#. :class:`Handlers <.handlers.BaseRouteHandler>`
```
